# Greedy Algorithm

Fortunately, computer science has given cashiers everywhere ways to minimize numbers of coins due: greedy algorithms.

According to the national institute of Standards and Technology (NIST), a greedy algorithm is one "That always takes the best immediate, or local, solution while finding an answer. Greedy algorithms find the overall, or globally, optimal solution for some optimization problems, but may find less-than-optimal solutions for some instances of other problems."

What's all that means ? Well, suppose that a cashier owes a customer some change and in that cashier's drawer are quarters (25c), dimes (10c), nickels (5c), and pennies (1c). The problem to be solved is to decide which coins and how many of each to hand to the customer. Think of a "greedy" cashier as once who wants to take the biggest bite out of this problem as possible with each coin they take out of the drawer. For instance, if some customer is owed 41c, the biggest first(i.e problem as immediate, or local)  bite that can be taken is 25c. (That bite is "best" inasmutch as it gets us closer to 0c faster than any other coin would) Note that bite of this size would whittle what was a 41c problem down to a 16c problem, since 41 - 25 = 16. That is, the remainder is a similar but smaller problem. Needless to say, another 25c bite would be too big (assuming the cashier prefers not to lose money) and so our greedy cashier would move on to a bite of size 10c, leaving him or her with a 6c problem. At this point, greed calls for one 5c bite followed by one 1c bite, at which point the problem is solved. The customer receives one quarter, one dime, one nickel, and one penny: four coins total.

It turns out that this greedy approach (i.e algorithm) is not only locally optimal but also globally so for America's currency (and also the european union's). That is, so long as a cashier has enough of each coin, this largest to smallest approach will yield fewest coins possible. How few ? Well, you tell us !
